.TH SINTERACTIVE 1 "July 2026" "bodhi" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sinteractive \- start an interactive tmux session on a Slurm compute node
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sinteractive
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.RB [ \-\-
.IR SBATCH_ARGS... ]
.br
.B sinteractive \-\-attach
.IR JOBID | NAME
.br
.B sinteractive \-\-list
.RB [ \-\-json ]
.br
.B sinteractive \-\-status
.RI [ TARGET ]
.RB [ \-\-json ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sinteractive
submits a batch job that launches a detached
.BR tmux (1)
session on the allocated compute node, then SSHes in and attaches to
it. Because the shell lives in tmux, the session survives SSH drops and
can be reattached later with
.BR \-\-attach .
.PP
Options not listed below are passed directly to
.BR sbatch (1),
so any sbatch resource flag (e.g.
.BR \-\-gres ,
.BR \-\-exclusive ,
.BR \-\-qos )
works as expected.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Launch options
.TP
.BI \-n\fR,\ \fB\-\-name\  NAME
Tag the session with a name for easy reattach. Allowed characters:
letters, digits,
.BR . ,
.BR _ ,
.BR \- .
The name appears in
.B squeue
(as job name
.BI sint\- NAME ),
in
.B \-\-list
output, and can be used anywhere a
.I JOBID
is accepted. Launching a second session with a name already in use is
refused.
.IP
Note that
.B \-n
is consumed by sinteractive as
.BR \-\-name ;
use
.BI \-\-ntasks= N
to set sbatch ntasks instead.
.TP
.BI \-\-node\  NODE
Request a specific compute node (alias for
.BR \-\-nodelist ),
e.g.
.BR compute01 .
.TP
.BI \-\-partition\  PART
Slurm partition (default:
.BR interactive ).
.TP
.BI \-\-time\  TIME
Wall time limit (default: 1 day). Accepts shorthand in addition to
Slurm formats; see
.B TIME FORMATS
below.
.TP
.BI \-j\fR,\ \fB\-\-threads\  N
Number of CPUs (alias for
.BR \-\-cpus\-per\-task ;
default: 2).
.TP
.BI \-m\  SIZE
Memory (alias for
.BR \-\-mem ),
e.g.
.BR 16G
(default: 8G).
.TP
.B \-\-mouse
Enable tmux mouse support: wheel scrollback, click to select panes,
drag borders to resize. Off by default because it intercepts terminal
selection; hold Shift to select text for an OS-level copy. With mouse
support on, tmux's own mouse selection copies out over SSH via OSC 52.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-mouse
Disable mouse support (overrides
.BR SINTERACTIVE_MOUSE ).
.TP
.B \-\-detach
Launch without attaching: wait until the session is ready, print
connection info (attach/status/run/cancel commands), and return.
Attach later with
.BR \-\-attach .
Useful for scripts and agents; combine with
.B \-\-json
for machine-readable output. Unlike a normal launch,
.B \-\-detach
is allowed from inside an existing session (it never nests tmux).
.SS Session management
.TP
.BI \-a\fR,\ \fB\-\-attach\  TARGET
Reattach to a running session by
.I JOBID
or
.IR NAME .
If multiple sessions share a name, specify the job id.
.TP
.BR \-l ,\  \-\-list
List running sinteractive sessions with job id, name, node, partition,
elapsed time, time limit, and the session's current working directory.
.TP
.BI \-\-status\  [TARGET]
Show session status: state, node, partition, elapsed time, and time
remaining.
.I TARGET
is a
.I JOBID
or
.IR NAME ;
inside a session it defaults to the current session.
.TP
.B \-\-json
With
.BR \-\-list ,
.BR \-\-status ,
or
.BR \-\-detach :
print JSON for scripts and agents.
.B \-\-status \-\-json
includes
.BR end_epoch " and " remaining_seconds .
.TP
.BR \-h ,\  \-\-help
Show a short help message.
.SH TIME FORMATS
.B \-\-time
(and
.BR \-t )
accept shorthand that is converted to Slurm's
.I [D\-]HH:MM:SS
format:
.BR 8h ,
.BR 30m ,
.BR 2d ,
.BR 1d12h ,
.BR 1h30m .
Values carry over, so
.B 90m
becomes 1:30:00 and
.B 25h
becomes 1\-01:00:00. Native Slurm formats (anything containing
.B :
or
.IR D \-)
and pure integers (minutes) pass through unchanged.
.SH DEFAULTS
With no flags, a session gets 1 day of wall time, 2 CPUs, and 8G of
memory on the
.B interactive
partition. Personal defaults can be set with
.B SINTERACTIVE_*
environment variables (see
.BR ENVIRONMENT );
explicit flags always win.
.SH SUBMISSION CHECKS
Submission is refused, with an explanation, when:
.IP \(bu 3
the requested
.B \-\-time
would overlap an upcoming Slurm maintenance (MAINT) reservation \(em
Slurm would not start the job until after maintenance anyway. The error
suggests a shorter
.B \-\-time
that fits before the window. Passing
.B \-\-reservation
explicitly skips this check.
.IP \(bu 3
launching would exceed the interactive partition's per-user job limit.
The error lists your current sessions with reattach and cancel
commands.
.SH IN-SESSION KEYS
.TP
.B Ctrl\-b h
Open a help popup with job info (node, time remaining), detach and
reattach commands, and basic tmux keys. Any key closes it.
.TP
.B Ctrl\-b d
Detach from the session; the job keeps running. Reattach later with
.BR "sinteractive \-\-attach" .
.TP
.B Ctrl\-b $
Name (or rename) the session in place. Updates the squeue job name and
the name used by
.BR \-\-attach / \-\-status .
.PP
Ending the shell in every pane
.RB ( exit )
ends the session and releases the allocation.
.SH STATUS BAR
The dot at the left of the tmux status bar tracks time remaining:
shown in the terminal's foreground color while more than an hour is
left (configurable via
.BR SINTERACTIVE_WARN_YELLOW ),
then a yellow clock with a countdown, and a clock blinking yellow/red
with an M:SS countdown for the final 10 minutes
.RB ( SINTERACTIVE_WARN_RED ).
The terminal bell rings once as the final countdown starts, so the
terminal tab is flagged even when you are looking elsewhere.
.SH SCRIPTING AND AGENTS
Headless workflows (e.g. Claude Code) can launch, inspect, and use a
session without attaching:
.PP
.nf
.RS
sinteractive \-\-detach \-n build \-\-time=8h \-\-json
sinteractive \-\-status build \-\-json     # incl. remaining_seconds
srun \-\-overlap \-\-jobid=JOBID \-\- CMD...  # run inside the allocation
.RE
.fi
.PP
Inside a session,
.B SINTERACTIVE_JOB_ID
(and
.BR SINTERACTIVE_NAME ,
if named) are exported, and
.B sinteractive \-\-status
needs no target. A state file (see
.BR FILES )
mirrors the countdown so the time budget can be polled without hitting
the scheduler.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
Set personal defaults, e.g. in
.IR ~/.bashrc ;
explicit flags always win.
.TP
.B SINTERACTIVE_TIME
Default wall time (e.g. 8h, 2d). Default: 1 day.
.TP
.B SINTERACTIVE_PARTITION
Default partition. Default: interactive.
.TP
.B SINTERACTIVE_CPUS
Default CPU count. Default: 2.
.TP
.B SINTERACTIVE_MEM
Default memory (e.g. 16G). Default: 8G.
.TP
.B SINTERACTIVE_MOUSE
.BR on | 1 | true | yes
enables mouse support. Default: off.
.TP
.B SINTERACTIVE_WARN_YELLOW
Seconds remaining at which the status-bar countdown turns yellow.
Default: 3600.
.TP
.B SINTERACTIVE_WARN_RED
Seconds remaining at which the blinking final countdown starts.
Default: 600.
.PP
Exported inside a session:
.B SINTERACTIVE_JOB_ID
and, when the session is named,
.BR SINTERACTIVE_NAME .
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.cache/sinteractive/JOBID.json
Time-remaining state file, refreshed about every 30 seconds while the
session runs and removed at teardown. Contains
.BR job_id ,
.BR name ,
.BR node ,
.BR end_epoch ,
.BR remaining_seconds ,
and
.BR updated_epoch .
.B $HOME
is shared, so it is readable from the login node too.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B sinteractive
1-day session, 2 CPUs, 8G memory.
.TP
.B sinteractive \-n myproj \-\-time=8h
Named 8-hour session.
.TP
.B sinteractive \-\-node compute01
Run on a specific node.
.TP
.B sinteractive \-\-time=2h \-p rna
2-hour session on the rna partition.
.TP
.B sinteractive \-\-mem=32G \-j 8
32G of memory and 8 CPUs.
.TP
.B sinteractive \-\-attach myproj
Reconnect after a disconnect or detach.
.TP
.B sinteractive \-\-detach \-n build \-\-time=8h
Headless launch for scripts and agents.
.SH EXIT STATUS
0 on success; nonzero if submission is refused, a target session
cannot be found or is ambiguous, or the session fails to start.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sbatch (1),
.BR srun (1),
.BR squeue (1),
.BR scancel (1),
.BR tmux (1)
.PP
Bodhi cluster documentation:
.UR https://rnabioco.github.io/bodhi\-docs/sinteractive/
.UE
.SH HISTORY
A clean-room reimplementation, inspired by the original sinteractive by
P\[:a]r Andersson (NSC, Sweden) and the later CU Boulder adaptation by
Jonathon Anderson. Maintained by Jay Hesselberth.
